From Morgan Stanley's

Autonomy and AI Day: Charging Ahead but Key Risks Remain
December 12, 2025 02:57 AM GMT

---

--- Summary ---
RIVN ends off 2025 with strongly with margins exceeding expectations across both Auto and Software and Services.
Delivery guide unsurprisingly came in better than MSe, however, we wait for commentary on model mix (R2 vs. R1) and
visibility into demand given uncertainty post tax credit phase out and late-2026 Gen 3 autonomy integration, which we
believe is a near-term risk to demand.
RIVN is developing a suite of hardware and software offerings to remain competitive in an Auto 2.0 world.
However, several risks remain around demand, potentially limiting data capture needed to reach higher levels
of autonomy, and thus its path to profitability, driving our UW rating and $12 PT.

--- Deliveries and Financial ---
Strong Software and Service (S&S) growth expected in 2026, supported by VW JV and remarketing efforts. The company
expects 60% growth in S&S revenue in 2026, coming in well ahead of our previous expectation for 9% Y/Y growth.
This is driven by ~45% growth in revenue associated with its VW JV and ~79% growth from its service business
(remarketing, autonomy, etc.).

Despite stronger S&S growth, the midpoint of adj. EBITDA guidance came in below consensus driven by a combination
of near-term gross margin pressure and elevated opex. Management emphasized near-term gross margin pressure as it
ramps R2 production, with improvement expected in 4Q as R2 volumes scale. Additionally it expects growth in R&D and
SG&A driven by investments in R2 and its autonomy offering. Our adj. EBITDA is largely unchanged at -$2.19bn vs. -$2.17bn
previously but below -$1.95bn at the midpoint of guide.

FCF burn worsens – Georgia on our minds… The company spoke to inventory build until R2 deliveries can ramp in
2H – creating a working capital drag for the full year. Compounding this is the guide for increased capex – $2bn
capex at midpoint for 2026, above our $1.6bn prior estimate driven by added store / service locations and ongoing spend
at Normal. The company also indicated that capex in 2027 will grow Y/Y given increased investment in its Georgia mfg site.
We revise lower our FCF estimates to -$4.8bn / -$4.7bn in 2026 / 2027 vs. -$4.2bn / -$3.4bn previously.

Autonomy optionality is a core value proposition of BEVs – we remain concerned that Gen 3 not getting introduced until
early 2027 is a significant risk for near-term demand. The decision to tier the hardware sensor suite introduces an 'upper-bound'
to autonomous capabilities on earlier generation vehicles (incl. Gen 2 R2 selling from 2Q26-4Q26), potentially driving
more customers to wait for the next gen product.

--- AI & Autonomy Section ---
Key takeaways
Rivian's Gen 3 hardware architecture will launch in late 2026, featuring a multi-modal sensor suite with eleven cameras, five radars, and one LiDAR.
Rivian's new in-house custom silicon chip, RAP1, will support its Gen 3 Autonomy Computer, offering 4x peak performance and 2.5x power efficiency over Gen 2.
Strong R2 adoption is likely a pre-requisite for a successful eyes-off/hands-off point-to-point autonomy offering.
In-house chip development may increase capital intensity and pressure Rivian's path to profitability and FCF breakeven in the near-term.

RIVN hosted their Autonomy and AI Day today, where management presented a suite of impressive next generation hardware and software offerings.
Below we highlight our key takeaways.

1) Enhanced Rivian Autonomy Platform. Rivian announced that by year-end it will roll out Universal Hands-Free driving on over 3.5m miles of
road across North America (up from ~135k miles today), available for all existing R1 Gen 2 vehicles. In 2026 it plans to roll out point-to-point
eyes-on, hands-off navigation, which will be followed by eyes-off, hands-off (no timeline provided but we estimate no earlier than 2027).
And finally, Rivian will eventually offer personal L4 autonomy (i.e. no driver) - note that this level of autonomy could eventually be leveraged
for robotaxi/rideshare, although it seems clear to us that in the near-to-medium term, driving adoption of personal autonomy will likely remain
RIVN's core focus. Pricing for RIVN's Autonomy+ product starts at $2,500 (one-time) or $50/month, but we expect premium pricing for higher levels
of autonomy (eyes-off/hands-off, full L4, etc).

2) New Gen-3 hardware and software architecture launching in late 2026 with a multi-modal sensor suite. Rivian's Gen-3 autonomy hardware architecture
includes eleven cameras providing 65 MP of data (10 additional MP above latest generation), five radars (unchanged number of radars, but improved functionality on R2),
one LiDAR (new), and its new Gen 3 Autonomy Computer, which leverages its new in-house custom silicon chip. Its decision to embed LiDAR came somewhat
as a surprise but management pointed to (i) enhanced long-distance and 3D perception, (ii) a significant reduction in LiDAR costs (from >$10k/unit to "several hundred"
dollars today), and (iii) reduced size and ease of integration, as the main drivers of their decision to include LiDAR in the Gen-3 vehicle. Importantly,
the additional LiDAR sensor has been engineered to sit flush on the front of the vehicle (near the top of the windshield), without any material impact to
the aesthetics of the vehicle.

3) New in-house custom silicon chip (RAP1). Rivian designed a custom silicon chip that will be used in its Gen 3 Autonomy Computer to support its autonomy platform.
The chip supports a neural engine with 800 TOPS (1600 TOPS or 5 billion pixels per second of sensor data at the system level) and supports a Gen 3 computer that has
4x the peak performance compared to Gen 2 while being 2.5x more power efficient, and importantly, is designed for functional safety. Additionally with this new chip,
the R2 is expected to have ~100 TOPS of edge AI compute, fully dedicated to in cabin experiences (vs. cloud-based today).

4) Rivian Unified Intelligence and Virtual Assistant. Rivian also launched Rivian Unified Intelligence (RUI), a multi-modal and multi-LLM data foundation integrated
across the company's full suite of operations, from the assembly line, to service infrastructure, to predictive maintenance. They unveiled the Rivian Assistant, a
next-gen voice interface built into the vehicle and integrated as an AI agent into in-vehicle applications such as driving modes and temperature preferences as well as
consumer applications such as Google Calendar and text messaging. Rivian Assistant is targeted to launch in early 2026 on Gen 1 and Gen 2 R1 vehicles. While we commend
the tech innovation unveiled today with RUI and Rivian Assistant, we believe the integration of agentic AI in the driving experience is somewhat table stakes to remain
competitive with Tesla (which offers Grok in the car) as an EV manufacturer.

Rivian laid out an impressive tech roadmap and is clearly positioning to remain an AI-leader in the auto industry. However, there are several risks over the next 12 months
worth highlighting.

Uncertain demand outlook for R2, particularly in light of an evolving hardware roadmap - it appears not all R2s will be equipped with LiDAR, potentially putting a tech
ceiling and raising obsolescence risk of early R2 production.
Ability to scale to eyes-off/hands-off appears dependent on strong R2 adoption for data capture.
In-house chip development may require significant future R&D spend for future innovation, increasing the capital intensity of the business and potentially pressuring the
path to profitability and FCF breakeven.

We remain UW RIVN with a $12 price target ($5/shr core auto + $7/shr Software and Services). Our UW rating is underpinned by our expectation for weaker-than-expected R2
demand into the teeth of an EV demand slowdown, potential Osborne effect of the R2 launch and now Gen-3 vehicle architecture launch on existing vehicle demand and residual
values, and a prolonged path to profitability. While it's clear that Rivian as an organization, and the culture embedded in the firm, is tech-forward and positioning to
compete in an Auto 2.0 world, the aforementioned risks drive our UW rating and $12 price target on a 12-month forward view.

$12 PT reflects the SOTP of our DCF-derived Automotive and Software & Services segments. At our PT, we value each segment as follows:

Automotive: $5/share - Assumes ~284k units in 2030, a 24% revenue CAGR (2025-2040), a ~6% exit EBIT margin and a 0% discount to the DCF.
Software & Services: $5/share - Assumes ~780k/9.3mn fleet in 2030/2040, $129 blended Monthly ARPU (2040), 16% revenue CAGR (2025-2040), 66% discount

Risks to Upside
Higher installed base, attach rate, RPU on S&S
Vertical integration leads to lower cost structure
Increased penetration, new plants, capacity expansion
Market share gains
More EDV orders from AMZN
More strategic partnerships/tech licensing

Risks to Downside
Market does not ascribe value to software biz
Capital raises leads to dilution
Execution mishaps
Competition/volumes
Greater than expected compute/AV/ADAS capex

---

Events/Thoughts/Feeds
Jan 15th: Validation Vehicles Built
Jan 22nd: Fire breaks out at Illinois Plant
